dbt clone command (#3742)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/commands/clone.md

---
title: "About dbt clone command"
sidebar_label: "clone"
id: "clone"
---

The `dbt clone` command clones selected nodes from the [specified state](/reference/node-selection/syntax#establishing-state) to the target schema(s). This command makes use of the `clone` materialization:

> - If your data platform supports zero-copy cloning of tables, and this model exists as a table in the other environment, dbt will create it in your environment as a clone
> - Otherwise, dbt will create a simple pointer view (`select * from` the other object)
> - By default, `dbt clone` will not recreate pre-existing relations in the current target. To override this, use the `--full-refresh` flag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your data platform supports zero-copy cloning of tables, and this model exists as a table in the source environment, dbt will create it in your target environment as a clone
- Otherwise, dbt will create a simple pointer view (`select * from` the source object)
- By default, `dbt clone` will not recreate pre-existing relations in the current target. To override this, use the `--full-refresh` flag. 
```

- You may want to specify a higher number of [threads](/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-threads) to decrease execution time since individual clone statements are independent of one another.

The `clone` command is useful for:

> - blue/green deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- blue/green continuous deployment
```

> - blue/green continuous deployment

Reviewer 2: would it be helpful to link to [this](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/performing-a-blue-green-deploy-of-your-dbt-project-on-snowflake/1349) so there's context? is that the right link?

Reviewer 3: yes, good call! that's a fairly old post at this point, but until we have a newer one, it's good to provide some definition/context

Author: How do we feel about this being a snowflake-specific article? I think blue/green continuous blue/green deployment will be different depending on the warehouse being used (zero copy cloning vs. pointer views)

Reviewer 3: Even better point. Blue/green is really only enabled by table clones. There's also ~hackery~ cleverness in that post around overriding `ref` so that when the schemas get swapped, the views stay pointed to the same database.

Maybe better to skip it for now, and just say something like:
> - blue/green continuous deployment (on data warehouses that support cloning tables)

Or remove the bullet entirely, until we have a more up-to-date and thorough dev blog article that we could link to

Author: Just updated - let me know what you think

---
title: "About dbt clone command"
sidebar_label: "clone"
id: "clone"
---

> The `dbt clone` command clones selected nodes from the specified state to the target schema(s). This command makes use of the `clone` materialization:

Reviewer 4: Can we use `source` and `target` to refer to the tables instead of `this` and `other` for clarity and consistency?

Reviewer: Done: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/3742/commits/a96502e6fe5a058d99e936cd9413a46ad4353c7d

Author: How is something like this typically called out in the docs @runleonarun

> The `dbt clone` command clones selected nodes from the specified state to the target schema(s). This command makes use of the `clone` materialization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dbt clone` command clones selected nodes from the [specified state](/reference/node-selection/syntax#establishing-state) to the target schema(s). This command makes use of the `clone` materialization:
```

> - If using a data warehouses that support zero-copy cloning of tables, selected models that are tables will be created as clones
> - For views and warehouses that do not support zero-copy cloning, selected models will be created as simple `select * from ...` pointer views

Reviewer 3: You don't need to use this exact language — just phrasing it in a way that makes sense to me:
```suggestion
- If your data platform supports zero-copy cloning of tables, and this model exists as a table in the other environment, dbt will create it in your environment as a clone
- Otherwise, dbt will create a simple pointer view (`select * from` the other object)
```

Note: 

> - The state to clone from is based on the location of nodes in the manifest provided to `--state`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The state to clone from is based on the manifest provided to `--defer-state` or `--state`
```

> - The state to clone from is based on the location of nodes in the manifest provided to `--state`.

Reviewer 4: Something else to note here is that you cannot use the same target directory for both the source and target due to `<placeholder>`.

Reviewer: Will it literally not allow the target and source to be the same? Or would it yield surprising results?

Author: How is something like this typically called out in the docs @runleonarun

Reviewer 5: @graciegoheen I would add this tidbit as a sentence in the very first paragraph. Maybe by rephrasing as what you should do instead of what you shouldn't, for example:
 
> The dbt clone command clones selected nodes from the [specified state](https://deploy-preview-3742--docs-getdbt-com.netlify.app/reference/node-selection/syntax#establishing-state) to the target schema(s). You must always use different directories for source and target otherwise you will get an error message/overwrite the source.  This command makes use of the clone materialization:

(hopefully you just get an error @aranke??)

Reviewer 4: You get a very weird error that source and target states are the same, and so it's a no-op.

I ran into this during local development, so think this warning needs to be surfaced loudly.

Reviewer: If we improve the error message produced by dbt-core, would that reduce the pressure to have it covered within the documentation?

Reviewer 3: Sounds like we want a `dbt-core` follow-on issue?

Author: ^ yes _and_ add callout to the docs? or yes _then we don't need this callout_?

Reviewer 3: I'd say "yes, and" — then when the issue is closed, we can remove the callout from the docs

Author: docs are updated - @dbeatty10 or @aranke are one of y'all able to open up a core issue to improve the error message?

Reviewer: @graciegoheen I just now opened a minimal issue here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/8160

> 
> Note: 
> - The state to clone from is based on the location of nodes in the manifest provided to `--state`.

Reviewer: I'm going to try deleting this note altogether in favor of linking to the relevant docs. See [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/3742/files#r1263903691).

We can always add this note (or something similar) back if needed.

```suggestion
```

> - The state to clone from is based on the location of nodes in the manifest provided to `--state`.

Reviewer 3: This will prefer `--defer-state` if specified, otherwise fall back to `--state` (and error if neither is specified)

(I'm adding docs on `--defer-state` and rolling into #3728)

- By default, `dbt clone` will not recreate pre-existing relations in the current target. To override this, use the `--full-refresh` flag. 

> - You may want to specify a higher number of [threads](website/docs/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-threads.md) to decrease execution time since individual clone statements are independent of one another.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- You may want to specify a higher number of [threads](/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-threads) to decrease execution time since individual clone statements are independent of one another.
```

Reviewer 3: > individual clone statements are independent of one another.

They _ought_ to be, although this isn't totally true in practice (yet). We still need to actually make this happen:
- https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/7914

But definitely worth calling out that, with parallelism in the mix, we expect this to be _significantly faster_ than `create schema clone` in a `run-operation`. (For dbt Labs' internal analytics project, I found it to be 60-80% faster.)

The `clone` command is useful for:

> - blue/green deployment

Reviewer 4: Nit: continuous blue/green deployment

Reviewer: Can you say more what you mean by "continuous blue/green deployment"?

Reviewer 4: Blue/green continuous deployment is a better phrasing, sorry

Reviewer: Done: d9bcdb7fbf68f89447e7fa05b736aec186639d26

---
title: "About dbt clone command"
sidebar_label: "clone"
id: "clone"
---

> The `dbt clone` command clones selected nodes from the [specified state](/reference/node-selection/syntax#establishing-state) to the target schema(s). You must always use different directories for source and target otherwise you will get an error message. This command makes use of the `clone` materialization:

Reviewer 3: > You must always use different directories for source and target otherwise you will get an error message.

Agh, on second read, the presence of this sentence so early in the page does confuse me. Let's cut it for now, and make sure to open the `dbt-core` follow-up issue for better error handling.

```bash
# clone all of my models from specified state to my target schema(s)
dbt clone --state path/to/artifacts

# clone one_specific_model of my models from specified state to my target schema(s)
dbt clone --select one_specific_model --state path/to/artifacts

# clone all of my models from specified state to my target schema(s) and recreate all pre-exisiting relations in the current target
dbt clone --state path/to/artifacts --full-refresh

# clone all of my models from specified state to my target schema(s), running up to 50 clone statements in parallel
dbt clone --state path/to/artifacts --threads 50
```

### When to use `dbt clone` instead of [deferral](/reference/node-selection/defer)?

Unlike deferral, `dbt clone` requires some compute and creation of additional objects in your data warehouse. In many cases, deferral is a cheaper and simpler alternative to `dbt clone`. However, `dbt clone` covers additional use cases where deferral may not be possible.

For example, by creating actual data warehouse objects, `dbt clone` allows you to test out your code changes on downstream dependencies _outside of dbt_ (such as a BI tool). 

> As another example, you could `clone` your modified incremental models as the first step of your dbt Cloud CI job to prevent costly `full-refresh` builds for warehouses that support zero-copy cloning.

Reviewer 3: nice!
